Guidance for start of week 5

Useful checklist

Depending on your teams timescales, you will be looking to have some or all of the following over the week.

Guiding Lights
You will know exactly what the key objectives of this project are.

Quality
Every stage of the design project is informed by the strength and accuracy of previous stages.
Enure that you are happy with the quality before you move onto the next. It's easier to fix problems
that are part of a single stage as opposed to every subsequent stage.

User Roles
Fully understand the purpose of each user role.

User stories
Fully understand what each user wants to get from the report management system

 



Requirements and Acceptance Criteria
You will have identified exactly what the system needs to do in order to allow every user role to perform their job effectively.

Note... the Acceptance Criteria and wireframing are not exclusive nor linear stages. They are cyclic stages that requires movement to and from each other.
Allow each to inform and strengthen the other.


Wireframing
Use pen and paper, mouse and screen... it's up to you. Assume the user roles and transport yourself through the system as you design it. Does it make sense?
Are their global elements that I need to access wherever I am. Am I using patterns that simplify the learning curve of the user. Are there any design conventions
in life that no matter what the system, users will expect to find certain elements in certain places?

Suggestion: Whiteboarding is a very fluid way to kick start ideas. Prototyping tools are great for refining.


 




Things to consider in forthcoming stages

Usability Testing
Who are you going to test?
How are you going to test?
How are you going to collate the results?
Have you allocated enough time to allow the results to inform and strengthen your designs?

You may not be ready to look a usability testing just yet, but keep it in the back of your mind when you start to wireframe as your wireframes may form the basis for your tests.



Slack channel